- Hello, YouTube.
Hello, Claudia.
Thanks everyone for-- - Hello.
- Hello, hello.
Thanks for joining us for the live stream and the recording.
If you got comments, please put them into the live chat.
If you're watching this live,
we'll try to make it part of the show.
Claudia, are you ready to kick this off?
- Let's go.
- All right.
Claudio, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- So happy to be here.
- I'm so happy to have you here.
It's great to be talking to you.
And this is one of those episodes
that's gonna be so fun because what it's gonna turn out
to be I'm pretty sure is diving into a ton of little tools.
And I can tell you just doing a little bit of research
and putting together some show notes for this,
like, oh, there's that thing and oh, look this too.
Oh, I didn't know about this.
So you've assembled this conglomeration of tools
and techniques that you're putting under
the hyper modern banner.
And I think it's gonna be a lot of fun to talk about.
So yeah, we're gonna have a good time.
Looking forward.
Indeed, same.
Now, before we get into that, let's talk about your story.
How did you get into programming and over here to Python?
So I think one day my dad, that must have been in the 80s, came back with and said,
"I bought a computer."
And I was really excited.
I imagined there's going to be a room filled with all these machines and ran down the corridor
and turned out to be some kind of keyboard, as it seemed to me.
So there was a Commodore 64.
And initially, we just played all those great 8-bit games.
And eventually, I started programming a little bit
in BASIC.
And I think that's kind of when I really found out
how much fun this is.
And then I think I was interested in a lot of other non-computer things for a long while.
I went to uni, I studied law. >> As most programmers do, of course.
>> Yeah. But somehow the interest in formal systems always stayed with me, and law,
especially continental law, German law is very much like a little bit like a calculus,
tracing back to ancient Rome. And I got interested in logic. And there's a small
research community working on applying AI and logics to legal theory. And that was really my
my gateway drug to get back into programming, really, logics.
And I think I programmed this like a little flashcard system to help me prepare for the
for the law exams.
Nice.
Yeah.
Eventually, I decided, you know, I have to, I want to get really deep into this.
and I started studying computer science
and pretty much never went back to law after that.
So I have a law degree, but working as a software engineer.
- It's interesting.
I hadn't really thought about it with law.
I do have a friend who's a lawyer in software.
So I know it happens for sure,
but thinking about the way you have to
mentally sort of solve the problems
and the constraints of like legal contracts and laws and stuff and how they apply. That's
actually kind of a similar skill to thinking through solving a computer programming problem
with APIs and what the computer can do and stuff, right?
And it's such a human way of thinking. So it's really interesting from an AI point of
view because it's not the kind of really clear logical deductions that you have, but there's
a lot of everyday knowledge that you need to have and the feasible rules.
So it's quite exciting.
Yeah, very neat.
Now what kind of code and what kind of stuff are you doing these days?
So I've been working mostly on cybersecurity.
So I'm working for a company for almost 14 years that's doing cybersecurity as a service.
So we're working mostly on C++ services, so high performance data intensive services.
And we're using Python mostly to automate the build system, testing releases, but also
for prototyping.
or algorithms that's really handy
before you implement it in a high-performance way.
- Yeah, I think Python is used frequently for that.
Like, let's prototype this,
and then if once we completely decide it works right,
then we're gonna write it in C++ or Rust.
That's not the most common use of Python,
but it certainly is one that people have said,
oh, this is really good
because you can prototype so quickly.
Sometimes people just decide,
and also this will just work fine for what we're doing.
Actually, it's plenty fast.
Or they decide, you know, maybe not, right?
Maybe they need C++, but it's still a cool use case.
- Yeah.
- Now, let's kick off our conversation
with some thoughts from a former guest, Mahmoud Hashemi.
He had a really interesting way of sort of presenting Python
to people who are not deep in the Python language
and said basically it's actually,
When people say Python is great for prototyping, for example,
well, they might be talking about one of three things
or some combination of there.
It could be when people say, oh, Python is good for this
or Python is like that.
They might be talking about the language
or they might be talking about the standard library
or more and more these days,
they're talking about the third-party ecosystem
with I don't even know how many libraries.
I gotta look this up 'cause it changes so fast.
Right now at the time of recording, 368,000 libraries.
So when people mention Python,
they often mean one or more of those different things.
And we're gonna talk about hyper modern Python.
So I think we should frame it a little bit
in the sense of like, well,
what is modern about the language
or what is kind of modern about the standard library?
And obviously the ecosystem is where a lot of it's happening.
So from your point of view, what is modern Python
before we get the hyper modern?
- Yeah, definitely we can talk about the language,
the standard library, the ecosystem.
I'd also add the community.
I think that's something that really defines Python.
- Yeah, I agree.
- Yeah, and all that tooling that evolved in the ecosystem.
So about the language, what really--
because my story is I think I got into Python--
Python was it, like Python 2.3?
And I--
>>Luis: So you've been through the journey.
You've been through the great split.
>>Christiane: But I missed--
>>Luis: The rejoining.
>>Christiane: I pretty much missed a lot of the pain
of the Python 2.3 transition.
I've been busy with C++ and then came back to Python.
And for me, it was just the enthusiasm
of rediscovering all the great, like how expressive Python had become.
One of the things that really get me excited about modern Python is type annotations.
I just find them so helpful to structure programs, to make APIs clear, to help me think about
my code and to keep it maintainable and readable.
So I use them pretty much always.
And I always run mypy in strict mode.
I'd even use it in small scripts and it's of course very helpful in large systems.
Absolutely. Yeah, you know, I don't know that I've, in fact, I'm pretty sure I've never gone
end-to-end and taken a large system and completely made it 100% mypy checked, you know.
For me, I'm with you. I absolutely love the types and I've, I use them a lot to sort of drive the
the tooling intelligence.
For example, like if you've got a data access layer,
you could talk about what is exchanged
at the boundary there,
so that your editors are all of a sudden
super smart about auto-complete.
And I was just doing a massive overhaul to the course,
Talk Python courses website,
and I changed like, it was 110 commits in this PR,
it was like ridiculous.
But before I checked them all in, I went through
And I said, okay, look for all the type warnings,
look for anything that might have become
like out of sync along the way.
And I caught like one or two things
before I accepted the merge the PR back in.
So like, it's just, yeah,
I absolutely think that's one of the most important additions
- And they also, it's so nice how you can leverage them
at runtime as well.
It's not only that they allow you to check your code
in a way that doesn't require hitting every code path,
but you can build data validation on top of it
and so many more.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, look at libraries like Pydantic and FastAPI
that are making interesting runtime use out of it.
- Absolutely.
- And speaking of modern Python,
like there was that proposed change
to make typing more efficient
where it wouldn't actually import the things
until it really needed it.
Or I can't remember the exact pep,
but it was a way to sort of delay type information imports
until you're doing something like mypy
and the pydantic people and Sebastian at FastAPI
is like, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
We need this, like this is how our thing works.
If you take away the actual meaning
other than for verification, it's gonna be a problem."
- The stringification of the type
that makes it really hard for these use cases.
And there's this other approach
where they basically lazily evaluate the types, I think,
to avoid this string problem.
- Yeah. - I don't know if they've,
I think it's still an open question
of how to proceed this.
We should have gotten the string types already
and then decided to take some more time
to find a good solution for everybody.
- Yeah, I think that was, it was sort of delayed.
I can't remember the total outcome,
but I think it was like, we needed to think about this more
and make sure all the use cases are covered, right?
Cool.
Okay, well, that's the language.
One thing that we could talk about real quick,
that's pretty timely, is this pep
I just had Brett Cannon and Christian on
to talk about PEP 594,
removing dead batteries from the standard library,
which, you know, it's pretty interesting.
The idea is a lot of these libraries had been added,
these core modules have been added to the standard library
in like 1992, and they might not still be relevant.
For example, CGI is not the most common way
to do web apps anymore.
We've got micro-WSGI and G-Unicorn
and all those things, right?
So does that still make sense to maintain them?
- Yeah, I think the set of libraries
to remove them was pretty non-controversial.
- Yeah, I agree.
- They're just very, very obsolete
and also basically unmaintained.
And it's, CPython has, I think, like 90 core developers
and they have like, I don't know, 1,000,
1,600 open PRs right now.
So it's very hard to maintain a huge standard library
with so little human resources.
So I think that was a good step.
What I really find interesting is the vision behind it.
Where should the standard library go?
what are the criteria in the future to include libraries?
For example, we think recently we got Tomlib
into the standard library.
- Yeah, to join JSON and CSV and XML and all those, yeah.
- It started as a PyPI library called Tomli,
and it's been adopted quickly
by a lot of the tools out there.
And now it's part of the,
that will be part of the standard library.
So this is, for example, this is something that
is important to solve a bootstrapping problem
in the packaging ecosystem,
because we have PyProjectTOML now,
and how is pip going to pass
the PyProjectTOML file, for example?
How are the other tools going to pass it?
So it's very advantageous to have it in the standard lib.
But we probably don't want to have passes
for every file format out there.
- I agree.
In fact, a lot of the ones that were removed in PEP 594
are actually having to do with file formats.
So you've got like AIFC, which is an audio format.
You have audio op, you've got, what is it?
Like the sun AU format.
there's a bunch of things like that.
So yeah, I don't wanna dive too much into that
because we've done a whole show on it,
but I do think it's interesting to think about this
as a modern, like the first step in a modernization
of the standard library, right?
- Yeah.
- And then where it really blows open,
and I think an interesting inter exchange
sort of cross influence here is the,
as I already mentioned, the 368,000 external packages
that are building on a lot of the new language features
that I think are super cool.
And how much, looking back, if that world existed already,
how much smaller would the standard library be, right?
Like would your lib ever have to be in there?
Well, we got requests, I don't know, maybe not.
It could make a lot of sense for it actually to be there,
like this bootstrapping problem you talked about,
but maybe it doesn't, right?
Like I think different choices have been made,
But yeah, what are your thoughts on the ecosystem
from the PyPI perspective?
- Yeah, so if we look at the third party libraries,
I think for me, modern Python is a lot about expressive
types like address.
For me, it's like the best example really
to how to write well-structured code
using, Adders just got a new API,
which is really, really nice.
And I can definitely recommend having a look at it.
So it's become very easy to define immutable value objects,
essentially, that will allow you
to basically structure your domain logic.
I really expressed that. - That's interesting, yeah.
Yeah, they did get a new API.
- The API-- - It's not frozen.
Sorry.
- Yeah, no, I was gonna say that it did get
a new API recently.
I forgot that it, it kind of inspired data classes
and then it sort of turned the tables on it a bit, right?
And sort of rethought about how some of its stuff
was offered as well, right?
- I love that we have data classes in the standard library
because it's like a mini address
that you always have at your disposal,
even when you don't want to take on
third-party dependencies, but it's definitely always worth
looking at errors.
It's very fast and has a lot of features in it.
Doesn't have this problem that you can only
really update it once per year.
- Yeah, and that's a super interesting point.
They considered putting requests
in the standard library for a while,
and requests is under the, what is it under?
I can't remember the exact organization,
but it's under an official PSF.
Maybe I think it is just the PSF organization now
on GitHub, right?
It's sort of officially Python in a sense.
But they decided not to put it into the standard library,
not because it didn't fit or it wasn't good enough,
but because it would actually slow down
the development of requests and constrain it too much.
And that's sort of similar here as well, right?
Adders can come out every day with new stuff
and data classes yearly, right?
- Absolutely, yeah.
- I think that's an interesting aspect.
like sort of modern Python as well, right?
This ability to just continually deliver new features
and adapt it as needed.
- I also really love C Adder
because you mentioned Pydentic before,
but what I really like about C Adder,
it has kind of a similar,
so you can serialize and deserialize data classes
and Adders.
The difference between Pydantic and C Adders
is that Pydantic uses inheritance to give you
this functionality, whereas with C Adders,
you just have your pure Python classes without any--
they don't need to inherit from anything.
You just have-- you decouple the serialization logic
from your domain logic.
And I think that brings a lot of advantages
in structuring software.
- This is the right one I have on the screen here,
this C-A-T-T-R-S.
- Right, yeah.
- Yeah, interesting.
So you can do things like put a frozen decorator
onto just a regular Python class and hey, it's frozen.
You can create an instance of it
and you can say unstructure and you get a dictionary,
you can structure it back and tell it what type,
it parses it back, which is quite neat.
This one's new to me.
Like I said, we're going to go through a lot of those,
a lot of those different things.
Anything else you want to give a quick shout out
to in the broader ecosystem before we'll
dig into your hyper-modern ones that you're using as well?
If you haven't seen Rich and HTTPx,
those are definitely some to check out.
And HTTPx, basically, we talked about requests.
HTTPS has a very similar interface,
but gives you both async and sync operations.
So that's definitely wonderful.
- I use HTTPS a lot and it's really nice
because it's so familiar if you know requests,
but if you happen to find yourself doing cool async stuff,
you're not stuck not doing async
for one of the most important parts,
which is calling services, right?
So you can await doing a get or a post or whatever.
Yeah, it's really nice.
Not 100% switch to it instead of request,
but it's definitely one of my go-tos as well.
Cool.
All right, well, so that's sort of some thoughts
on modern Python and where things are going.
Then you created this series,
which is almost like a little mini course
on how should you, from your perspective,
how should you structure and build modern Python projects
and what tools should you bring in?
Not just should you use HTTPX over requests,
but should you use Knox for testing and things like that?
I'm guessing you might say yes for Knox,
given that you work on it, right?
So you did this article, this six-part series article on it,
which I'll definitely link to,
But then also you created a cookie cutter template
that'll allow people to jump into it.
And I find this to be really helpful.
I do this sometimes with my classes.
Be like, well, here's the thing we built at the end,
but if you just wanna create your own version of it,
here's a cookie cutter to actually just create it
with your settings and your values
that you don't have to go through rebuilding it from scratch.
And cookie cutter has been really influential
in that sense, don't you think?
Absolutely.
When I wrote the articles, there was example code on GitHub.
And I saw people forking the repository.
And I was like, oh, no.
They're all going to end up with this example
code that displays Wikipedia articles in your console.
And am I going to keep all the dependencies up to date?
And how do I even do that?
And I was like, no, I have to find a better way.
And cookie cutter was definitely a good way
to set up a project template.
And also something that was much easier for me
to keep up to date.
So there's, after two years, definitely quite a bit of drift
between the article series, which is from January 2020,
and the cookie cutter as it is today.
Yeah.
- Yeah, it's hard to keep an article or a video
or a talk or whatever as a living thing that evolves
as we gain more experience and stuff.
But a cookie cutter template, right?
That's like software, it's plastic.
- You can make it open source and have contributors
that do some work for you,
which is really, extremely grateful
for all the contributions I got there.
- Yeah, that's great.
I see a bunch of contributors there.
Now, first let's start with just the term,
Hypermodern Python. What's the story with the naming here?
I actually brought you now this only for those that have a
camera in front of them that this is this hyper modern
Python. So this is not Python. This is hyper modern, hyper
modern chess game, written in 1935. So this is where the name
hyper modern really comes from. You know, it's a bit it was
meant a little bit tongue in cheek. And also, I was very
conscious that, you know, how how is going, how's Python going
to look like two years after I've written this, this article
series, yeah, the ecosystem evolves so quickly. And I
decided to stick all these images in the in the blog that
are basically past versions of the future. It's a thing it's
called retrofuturism.
So they're basically all images from the 1920s and so on
about how people are, in the future,
maybe going to fly to the opera using planes
that look like little birds.
Yeah, it's sort of a steampunk mechanical bird people
are cruising along in.
Yeah, it's a cool picture.
It's a cool idea.
So yeah, so what is hypermodern?
I think basically it's just whatever I was excited about
and didn't know about beforehand.
I had used some tools, more the standard tools,
like setup tools and pip-tools and talks.
And coming back to Python, I thought, wow,
let's just check out all the things that have happened.
And let's see how maybe that might solve a few
the problems that I had.
So.
- Nice, okay.
So then you put together the article,
which is, you know, it's a serious article.
It's not just a couple of paragraphs, right?
It's quite a bit of writing.
Yeah, six articles and my little,
maybe it was your website's like 11 minutes reading
for this part, you know, that kind of thing.
So it goes into pretty good detail with examples.
And then you captured it in this cookie cutter
because like you said, to put it into practice,
that's a pretty good way.
Now using cookie cutter is super easy.
I'm sure people are familiar with this,
but it's cookie cutter, give it the name,
it asks a bunch of questions, right?
But I think maybe the right way to explore this
would be to talk about the features and the steps
of the cookie cutter that it does, right?
There's on the page for the cookie cutter GitHub repo,
where there's a big section that says Features.
And that sort of talks about the different aspects
and angles and dimensions you decided to bring in
and the tooling there.
So how about we just go through these
and sort of dive into them.
I think people are gonna discover.
Yeah, I think people are gonna discover
some cool tools here.
So first of all, you're gonna build something meaningful.
You've got to get some libraries off PyPI.
Like there's very few projects that have no dependencies
that are rich these days, and not just rich the package,
but feature rich.
So let's talk about the first one here.
Take us through it.
So Poetry really solved the problem for me
because it's basically the one tool approach.
You have one tool that does everything for you.
It will allow you to define metadata for your package,
build the package for you so you can publish it on PyPI.
It can manage environments for you,
install all the dependencies of your project
and your project itself.
And it can also manage the dependencies itself.
So it has a resolution mechanism.
And it has a log file,
which is for me a really important feature
because not only is it good for deploying services
in a reproducible and deterministic way,
but it's also for running the checks on your code
and making sure that the checks run exactly the same
locally on your machine in CI
with on and on the machines of your collaborators.
- Yeah, I'm not as familiar with the Poetry lock file
as I should be, but basically it's like
pinning your versions in a requirements.txt, right?
But so often people just write,
you know, here's my requirements.
I have requests or HTTPS and I have FastAPI
and I have SQLAlchemy or SQL model.
And you just type those out,
then you pip install -r, you're good to go.
Until you wanna go back to an old version
that might have a bug, that that's the one in production.
But the bug might be because it has the old library of whatever,
right?
And you don't know, right?
So you want to be able to pin those versions.
And then does the lock file also put the hashes in so they
can't be fiddled with?
>>Helge: It does, yeah.
So it has the hashes.
And it gives you all the-- basically,
the other indirect dependencies as well.
So much like pip compile would do for pip-tools.
And that is tremendously useful.
- Yeah, it absolutely is.
I'm a big fan of the pip-tools and pip compile.
We'll get to that later when you talk.
Yeah, yeah, when we get to it,
there's a section, a whole section
in the cookie cutter about it.
All right, so it starts by setting up with Poetry, right?
- Absolutely, yeah.
So I just say, so I called Poetry the one tool approach.
And there has been a lot of work
in the packaging community to introduce packaging standards
that make it easier for the tools to interoperate.
And I think this is actually a very good way
to approach things in an ecosystem like Python's
to make it possible that you can define your package
metadata for one tool, like Flit,
and then use poetry to build the package, or PDM,
and so many others.
And there has been a lot of great work
that has made the packaging ecosystem more diverse.
So--
Yeah.
Yeah, there was some separation of the architectures
of certain responsibilities, right?
Yes.
So there's PEP 621, which defined the metadata.
There was also an attempt to standardize log files, which
I think would be great.
But that PEP, unfortunately, has been rejected for now.
So I'm hoping that there will be more attempts in the future.
But so as great as it is to work with Poetry,
I definitely hope for the ecosystem
to become even more diverse and more standardized
to really give us more flexibility
and interoperability.
- Yeah, yeah, that is great.
Definitely seems like a lot of options
are coming out around that these days.
And then the next one here is test automation with Knox.
So what's your relationship with Knox by the way?
Are you the maintainer or are you just a contributor or?
- I'm co-maintaining Knox.
It was written by Thea Flowers
and it has a large maintainer team.
At the time that I wrote the article series,
I was just a fan of Knox.
And I started contributing to it.
And I kind of ended up co-maintaining it.
>> Whoops, I'm contributing more than anyone else.
Does that make me more involved?
All right, yeah, so tell us what the role of Knox plays.
>> So Knox is a great tool.
It's not just test automation.
It's really-- it lets you automate basically
all the developer tasks you have.
So this might be tests.
It might be the other checks you have, like linting.
Or it could be building your documentation,
or building wheels, if that's complicated in any way.
You can just-- so the great thing about Nox
is that it uses Python to let you define the tasks,
rather than basically having something like a make file
where you use the shell.
Or in Tox, you have an ini file where you enter your commands.
At least Tox 3, I think Tox 4 is also going
to add Python configuration.
So Knox, it's really inspired by Tox, I think.
So if you know Tox, Tox allows you
to run tests on multiple versions of Python.
And it's been around for much longer.
It's a very mature tool.
Knox is inspired by that.
It also lets you have this matrix of Python versions
or even other things.
So you can, similar to pytest,
you can parameterize your session functions
and pass in, say, like a specific dependency
that you want to test against in different versions.
So Nox is really useful if you want to have
a single entry point into your project maintenance,
running all the tasks that you have
and running them the same locally and on CI.
- Yeah, this looks great.
I hadn't really explored this, this Knox file thing
where you have these different tasks,
like a task, you know, a task basically being a function,
like so you say like tests or lint,
and you can just put a session decorator on it
and just say session.install pytest,
session.run pytest or session install flake eight
and run it with the parameters.
It's really nice and clean
and it's way better than a shell script.
I think it keeps you in Python, right?
- Right.
- Which is probably where you wanna be on Python projects.
- And it runs on all the platforms.
At some point I used make files to automate these things.
So the non-talks related things, I guess.
And those don't work very well on Windows.
- Yes.
- You don't have this problem.
- Yeah, that's for sure.
Cool.
And then we kind of saw an example of that there,
but Linting with Precommit and Flake 8.
- Right. - Tell us about
these two libraries.
- I love Precommit.
Actually, it wasn't in the first draft
of the article series.
I got some reviewers who commented on that.
I think Bonnie Funchmid from the pytest project
and Henning Schlavack both mentioned
that you have to cover Precommit.
And I was really skeptical.
I had made bad experiences with these kinds of pre-commit hooks
that run.
So you make a git commit, and then it
doesn't work because you had some wrong whitespace in it.
And I thought, I want my commits to be really snappy.
I'll just use Nox for that.
But after hearing these comments,
I thought, I'm going to give it a try.
It's a new tool.
maybe it solves these problems much better.
And it really does.
I would really recommend anybody to give pre-committed try.
Basically, you drop a YAML config
in your project that defines the hooks that you want to run.
So this might be a hook that formats your code using black
or that lints your code using flake 8 or so much more.
There's an abundance of pre-commit hooks out there.
- Oh, wow, yeah, there's probably 20 pages
in the list of pre-commit hooks that are at the top.
You can click on supported hooks in pre-commit.com.
- Right, and pre-commit,
so it's a GitHub manager,
but it's not just a GitHub manager.
It's also a linter framework
and a multi-language linter framework.
So you can have your hooks written in Ruby, C++,
you name it, and it's very easy to use them
in a Python project or basically any language project.
It works using Git, so basically installs the tools
from their Git repository.
And then you can run them as part of your Git commits
or all the other hook points that Git offers.
But you can also run it just in CI on your entire code base.
And that's really what I love about it
is that it has this fail early philosophy.
So you really get very early feedback.
But it also works as a gatekeeper
for your default branch and make sure
that all the commits that go into your main branch
are well-formed.
>>This is interesting.
I did have a creator of pre-commit on the show
quite a while ago.
I talked about it.
But I think maybe some of these are new,
I hadn't really appreciated them before.
Like one that's really cool here is check JSON
as a pre-commit and it checks JSON files
for parsable syntax.
So basically as part of your commits,
it says, well, I'm guessing here's a changed JSON file,
is this, can it just basically be loaded with,
JSON.loadf or load, give it a file, right?
And another one is, yes, you're supposed to have unit tests,
but you might not have unit tests for everything.
So check AST just means like, can Python parse the files?
That's sort of like the compile step, right?
In a sense.
So yeah, I mean, those are just like the first couple
out of this 20 pages.
So I need to come back to this and check TOML
with another sort of similar to the check JSON,
check YAML, check XML and so on.
- Yes, there's a, this repository called pre-commit hooks
and that has lots of very small hooks
that are tremendously useful.
And then you have larger tools that also offer integration
with pre-commit, like Flake 8, for example.
- Right, right, nice.
All right, and then on to continuous integration.
I feel like GitHub Actions is really sort of taking hold
in the Python space is a way a lot of people
are doing stuff there.
- Absolutely, it feels like there was some kind
of mass exodus from Travis CI to GitHub Actions.
It's so flexible, and it goes way beyond just running tests
and what you'd normally think of as CI.
So you can automate a lot of your developer workflows
centered around the collaboration with others.
>>Nice.
The type of stuff I work on doesn't superlend itself well
to GitHub Actions.
It does-- it probably does somewhat.
But it's not something I use that much.
But it seems like if you had a package that
had maybe complicated builds or something like that,
you could even use it to build your wheels and stuff
like that, right?
- Sure, yeah.
I mean, the way I like to use it is
to have most of the logic in Knox,
because that means I can always just test it locally
and see if everything--
debug it easily.
And then I try to keep the GitHub Actions workflows pretty
lightweight and just let them invoke Nox.
I usually have a matrix that contains the Nox sessions.
So this might be the testing or running pre-commit
or to lend the code or to build the documentation,
and see if that's all valid.
And then the matrix has the Python versions
that I want to test on.
If I'm working on a library, it's
important to support not just the latest Python version,
probably Python 3.6 onwards, maybe even the upcoming Python
version.
And then obviously, platforms.
So always, unless you're only working on one platform,
try to have at least Linux and Windows,
and then maybe macOS as well.
- Yeah, this is neat.
You know, people talk about,
well, we can't really test this on Windows
'cause I don't have a Windows machine, or vice versa.
Can't test it on Mac or...
- So easy.
- Yeah, so here's your three platforms right here, right?
- I'm not saying it's easy to debug it
if something goes wrong and you're only working
on macOS or Linux, you probably at some point
want to have a virtual machine running Windows
if you don't have a physical Windows machine.
But it's also not hard to get one these days too.
But otherwise, it's very easy to integrate Windows in your CI.
- Nice.
Yeah, very cool.
And then the next one has to do with documentation here.
- Sphinx, Myst, and Read the Docs,
and one of the themes, so yeah, pretty.
- When I wrote the articles,
it was just Sphinx and Read the Docs.
Myst hadn't happened yet, so,
well, Myst, maybe let's start with Sphinx,
'cause I guess many people will already be familiar with it.
It's a Python documentation generator.
It's also used for Python's own documentation.
So for example, the library docs.
It's been around for a long time.
And it normally uses restructured text,
which is a very expressive language
to write technical documentation.
Sometimes too expressive.
It's not the lightweight language
that we know Markdown to be.
And Markdown has really conquered the world.
And when I wrote the documentation chapter,
I think I linked to an article by Eric Holcher
from Read the Docs comparing the two formats.
And that was before Mist happened.
And he said, use restructured text.
It's just so much more expressive.
And it lets you have cross-references and all
these things as the powerful directives.
Anyway, now we have Mist, and Mist
allows you to do essentially the same thing in Markdown.
There's an extension syntax, and you can have directives.
You can have cross-references, and it's a lot of fun
to write documentation in Mist.
So this was a recent addition to the project template
to support Markdown documentation.
- And for those who don't know,
I also did have a show recently with the Mist folks
about Sphinx and Mist and so on.
And there I learned that one of the things that's cool
is you can inline restructured text.
So if you get to a section and you're like,
ah, this is just Markdown, I don't wanna do this.
No, do a little tiny bit of restructured text
instead of living in it, you know, for always.
- You actually need to do that still
for your generated API documentation.
So Sphinx has an extension called AutoDoc
that will take all the doc strings in your code
and transform that into API documentation.
And that still doesn't have a replacement.
So what you do is you write your doc strings
using restructured text,
maybe using Google-style doc strings
or NumPy-style docstrings.
And then you use the auto-doc directive
to basically quote it inline
in your markdown documentation.
So that's a little bit of restructured text there.
I think they're working on filling this gap.
There's some work going on
and I'm really looking forward to that feature coming
because then everything will be just markdown.
- Yeah, that'd be great, for sure.
I do want to give a quick shout out to Paul Everett's course
that he wrote over at DocPython on Sphinx.
If you're interested, check out this free course
that he put together for us over there.
So that's worth checking out.
Now, I'll put a link in the show notes.
Now, if you're building a Python package that goes on PyPI,
like not everything people build with Python goes on PyPI,
or even should be structured in the shape of a package,
potentially.
But a lot of them are, right?
A lot of libraries are.
So you talk about automating uploads to PyPI and test PyPI.
Wanna talk about the story there?
- Yeah, so PyPI, the Python package index there
actually has a sibling called test PyPI,
which is just a separate instance.
It's very useful to upload your wheels and SDIs
to test PyPI before you actually do a release
because you can check them and see if everything is the way
you expect it to be.
Basically, install the package end to end.
And in CI, what I like to do is I
have the switch where if it's an actual release,
I upload to PyPI.
But in all the other cases, I just upload to test PyPI.
So every commit that goes into the main branch
is going to be built and uploaded to test PyPI.
Yeah, you can't change what you put into PyPI.
You can add new versions that replace it,
but you can't change a version, really.
The best you can do is yank the release.
It's still going to be there for those
who have pinned the version.
But otherwise, it will be invisible to those who just
want to get the latest release.
But it's no over-replacing.
Yeah, so it's a nice reminder and automation to set up
to remember there's test PyPI and automatically have
your project known and used.
All right, here's another one.
When I talked about stuff I was learning,
this one is definitely new to me.
And this is cool.
Automate release notes with Release Drafter.
Tell us about Release Drafter.
This is cool.
So Release Drafter takes the titles of your merged PRs
And it creates a draft release.
So the release, in this sense, is the GitHub release.
That is something that you can see
on the right-hand side of the GitHub repo page.
You have this releases link.
And that basically gets you to either a list of tags,
or you can describe the changes.
So it's essentially release notes on GitHub.
- Surely there's some kind of weird inception
where release drafter uses release drafter
to build this change logs or something,
I'm guessing, right?
Probably. - I'm sure they do.
So release drafter is really handy for that.
Now, actually you can, so GitHub releases
have an auto-generate button.
So some of this functionality you will actually
get even without using the release drafter action.
So I think the release drafter action is somewhat more
flexible, what it gives you.
And basically means you're going to have
to add a GitHub Actions workflow for it and the configuration
file.
And you can provide a template for your release nodes
and some replacement marker that are placeholder
that where all the PR titles go.
- This thing is cool.
And it even has a draft.
Like you can see the draft release notes as well.
Yeah.
- You can see it.
And then you have a button to publish the draft release.
And if you don't have a tag yet,
that's also going to add a get tag to your repository.
- Cool.
Oh yeah, that's really nice.
lightweight approach to the release notes question.
- So I see that it has a what's changed,
but I also saw in the release drafter
had like bug fixes and stuff.
Is there a way to teach it?
Like these PRs are related to bugs
and these are additions and stuff like that?
- Yes, you can do that using labels on your PRs.
So if it's a bug fix, you have a label,
you know, then you can put it under a separate section.
- Cool, so basically just drive it, GitHub labels, cool.
All right, we got a lot to go through here.
So maybe these next two are pretty quick here.
Actually, the next three here.
You talked about this sort of article
and the cookie cutter drifting quite a bit apart
because so many things have changed.
One thing that seems to be pretty stable
is like since black came out,
people are all about just black.
It hasn't seemed to gone out of style at all.
I think that's a pretty stable one, right?
- It really makes a huge difference for productivity.
And I feel if I'm contributing to somebody else's project,
it makes things so much easier to know
that there's a consistent style.
I don't need to be afraid to destroy somebody's,
you know, well-crafted, handcrafted formatted code.
I can just run black and it's also great,
really helps readability.
It's basically the style becomes invisible.
So I love black and black now left us a better status
in January.
So we now have
- Official black.
- Finally.
- Well known as #000000.
There's no more debate.
- Right.
So, yeah, I'm definitely a big fan of black.
- Indeed.
I also give a shout out to Predeer as well.
And then sort of related,
you have import sorting with isort?
- So I've been using reorder Python imports for a long time,
which is also a tool by Anthony Sautillier
who wrote a pre-commit.
- Yes, I wanted to give Anthony a shout out,
but I wasn't a hundred percent sure
that I had the name just right in my memory.
So I didn't want to like misattribute it.
But yeah, he also did pre-commit,
which I had him on the show for.
- Right, so these days I actually like to use isort,
which is what everybody uses.
It's since ISOD 5, it's become much nicer to use.
It uses the AST more.
It has no trouble figuring out what your third party
dependencies are.
And it has an option--
so it has these profiles to make it really easy to be
compatible with Black style.
And what I like to do is I like to put each commit--
sorry, each import on a single line, which is actually
what reorder Python imports does as well.
And it greatly reduces the chance of merge conflicts.
- Oh, right, okay, yeah, of course, sure.
Cool.
A quick question, just stepping back to the release drafter.
Michael out in the audience says,
his biggest hurdle is for doing regular and good releases
are change logs.
How does Release Drafter sort of fit into that?
Basically, if you structure everything as a PR,
it'll capture it?
Yes, so Release Drafter only drafts the GitHub release
for you.
If you want to have, say, a page in your Sphinx documentation,
you're going to need to pull that out.
There's actually, I think, Evi Joachim wrote--
sorry, that's his GitHub handle.
I'm sure.
We should put a link later.
But there's a tool that will pull the GitHub release
and insert it into your Sphinx documentation.
So you can do that.
There's also Town Crier, which really should be mentioned,
and Scriv, which was written by Ned Batchelder.
Those are tools that allow you to add release notes
to your PRs as snippets or fragments.
And that scales very well if you have an open source project
with many contributors.
So yeah.
>>Luis: Oh, that's cool.
>>Sven: Still figuring out the best way
to maybe integrate all of these in some way.
But yeah.
- Sure, you can overdo it for sure.
All right, I think a quick, just a quick shout out,
speaking of Ned Batchelder, we have pytest,
coverage.py and CodeCov all in there is neat.
And then CLI interface with Click.
So that's an interesting one, a popular one as well.
- Absolutely, so that's from the palace project.
So the same family of projects like Flask.
There's also a nice wrapper for Click called Typer.
- Yes.
- Written by the FastAPI author.
- Yeah, when I saw that using click,
I'm like, hmm, you're such a fan of types.
Maybe typer is also relevant here.
- I've actually, I just had another look at typer
and I think I do like it after all.
I actually really like it.
Initially I was like, well, it's actually not so,
I kind of like how click gives you these decorators
and separates your option help texts
from the actual function.
But it is true that typer really reduces duplication
because you don't have to repeat the types of your options.
They're just the type annotations of your parameters.
So that's really neat.
- Nice.
All right, let's see.
So continuing with the typing story,
we've got two things here.
A static type checking with mypy.
Suspect a lot of people who are really into typing
know about this.
the CLI, you run against your code,
and it'll make sure everything hangs together.
If this function is calling that function with that variable,
and you said that variable is one of these things,
it makes sure that all is going to fit together.
If you get that working, then you
might be open to having something
like my.pyc for optimizations and so on,
which is also interesting.
But one that maybe people haven't heard about
is runtime type checking with TypeGuard.
>>Right.
I think it's really one of the most undervalued projects
out there in the typing space, TypeGuard is so useful.
When I first heard about it, I was
like, why would you want to runtime type check your code?
If you have a static type checker,
then you need to hit all the code paths.
Static type checking is great because it can just basically
deduce the type correctness.
TypeGuard is really useful if you're--
For example, if you're interfacing with third party
libraries who may or may not have type annotations,
if they do, great.
But how much do you trust them?
>>Luis: Right.
Yeah, just because it says it, nothing
enforces that where it said it returns an int.
It could return none.
And it should have said optional int, but it didn't.
>>Chris: Your code can absolutely
have type correctness as far as mypy is concerned.
but that might be just because there are some any types
or it's just kind of a loosey type
because there's no way to be stricter about the actual types
and TypeGuard will check that.
So the way I like to use TypeGuard is as a pytest plugin.
So you're basically running your test suite.
And if you have complete code coverage,
that should give you a good chance to catch any--
- Oh, interesting.
can turn it on while your tests are running and it will run time check everything but
then in production not turn it on?
>> Exactly.
>> Okay.
>> So you basically specify it.
So you install it next to pytest and then you pass an option.
I think it's type guard packages and pass the name of your package and then type guard
is going to wrap every function in your code
and check the parameter types and the return time.
So that's really useful.
It's also a library.
So if you want to explicitly check in production,
you can also use typeguard for that.
>>Nice.
Yeah, it's got the type checked decorator, which probably--
you can just put that on stuff if you
want to make sure it's checked.
Nice.
OK, well, that's a good one to learn.
Another one is you create your project,
you start building it, two years later,
who knows some feature is added.
Some other language feature might be not the way to do
things, so you talk about automated Python syntax upgrades
with pyup upgrade.
Yeah, this is cool.
- That's another Anthony Sotile tool.
So it also, you can run it from pre-commit
it's going to essentially pass the AST of your--
so the abstract syntax tree of your code
and look for things that have better ways to express them
in your versions of Python.
So basically, what you say you drop Python 3.6,
And automatically, you get unions, like the pipe--
>>Right, right, like int pipe none
versus optional bracket int, something like that, right?
Yeah.
>>These kinds of things.
Yeah, giving you nice set comprehensions of cost
to the set built-in, those of these.
And it's very nice if you are supporting
multiple Python versions, and you've
been waiting to use this feature.
And now finally, you can drop the last Python version
that didn't support it, and you get this for free.
I just brought it for you.
- Yeah, that is interesting.
I hadn't really thought about that.
Some of these are not language features
in the sense that people are thinking,
oh, well now I can use async and await,
which would take a real important, significant change.
But it's just like, oh, now you're able to,
because of PEP 289 pass a generator directly
to the min function or max or some
rather than a list comprehension
which then gets processed, right?
And that would just be more efficient across the board.
And so that just happens automatically, right?
Cool.
Yeah, very neat one.
All right, next security audits.
- So there's, there's Bannet.
Banit is a tool that looks at your Python code
and figures out if there are any things that may or may not
give you a security vulnerability
or any kind of security issue.
It flags some things like just importing a sub process
and you can no QA it.
I still find that useful
because it just gives me a moment to think about
all the implications of spawning other processes
from our Python code.
But it has a lot of checks in your Python code base.
So it's very nice to use it to guard yourself against some.
- Right, like it'll detect things like yaml.load
should be yaml.safeload.
and I bet there's something there about pickling.
(laughs)
- Yeah, for sure.
- It's gotta be.
All right, and then, yeah, exactly.
Safety is the other one, yeah?
- That basically just checks your dependencies.
So there's a curated database of security vulnerabilities
and it's gonna see if you have any dependency
in a version that was vulnerable.
- Nice.
And just stepping back just a moment,
Nick Maw points out that Typer's amazing
when it comes to the documentation
in the --help option, which is pretty cool.
Let's see, going back to, yeah,
checking the documentation with xdoctest.
- So xdoctest is essentially a rewrite
of a standard library or utility, it's called doctest.
And what does it do?
So suppose you have a doc string with an example code
that shows how you are supposed to use a library
or a function, and you commonly write these
with the Python interpreter prompt
to give you like, what does the user type,
import my package, and underneath you have the output
of whatever functions you called and so on.
And so doc test runs these examples
and sees if they produce the expected output.
They don't throw--
raise exceptions and so on.
xdoctest is a rewrite that uses the AST more
than regular expressions, which is nice
and is also a bit more flexible and has a few nice features
compared to doc test.
>>Victor: All right, cool.
So if you have an example in your documentation,
here's a way to automatically make sure it's all good.
Also another audience question follow up here,
Basil asks, what do you think about services like SYNC,
a SNYK, sorry, S-N-Y-K,
SNYK to check dependencies, like for security, right?
So you depend on Flask, Flask depends on,
it's dangerous, it's dangerous,
who knows, theoretically could have some issue,
like that kind of check I'm thinking he's asking for.
I haven't used Snake yet, so I'm only familiar with safety.
- Nice, okay, cool.
Getting close to the end.
Then I have a question about all these taken as a whole.
All right, generating API documentation
with Autodoc and Napoleon?
- Right, so we talked about this before.
This takes your doc strings
and generates API documentation.
And this is not a RESTful API, like Swagger OpenAPI.
This is like my Python libraries function documentation.
- Exactly, yeah.
That's so the reference for the functions
in your package.
- Got it.
- And Napoleon is a tool that will add support
for doc strings that are written Google style, for example,
or some other conventions for doc strings.
So Google style is pretty lightweight,
which is- - Yeah, I'm a fan of that as well.
Yeah.
- Yeah, declaring your arguments and returns.
- Okay, nice.
Generate a command line reference with Sphinx click.
So I'm guessing if you're using click,
this might be relevant.
- Right, so you already have all your option help texts
and command descriptions in Click.
So why not just use them to generate the documentation?
And that's basically what Sphinx Click does.
So it takes, so when you build your documentation
and you use things like Autodoc or Sphinx Click,
you have to remember to install your own package.
And then these tools can just import it
and read the documentation.
read all the documentation that you have in line
in your code, including click option of text.
- Yeah, very cool.
All right, you've done all the work,
you've documented it, you've tested it, it's good to go.
Now you're gonna release it, put it on GitHub.
And the last one is manage project labels
with GitHub Labeler.
- So the idea of Labeler is that you,
instead of going through the web interface
and then typing in all the color codes and hex and so on,
you can just use a file that you put in your repository
to manage all your labels for your PRs and for your issues.
That's really helpful and makes it really easy
if you're collaborating with other people.
- Nice.
Yeah, that's great.
- Okay, well, that's your cookie cutter.
And in one fail swoop, in one single CLI cookie cutter
command, you get all of these.
So when this runs, I should have just run it
and played with it, but does it give you an option
to say, you know, don't install my pie,
or does it just kind of give it all to you?
What's the, I know cookie cutter has a lot
of conditional behaviors and stuff.
Like, what's the experience of using this
a creative project?
I have personally resisted putting in too many options.
It's kind of--
I try to find-- to kind of show one way that works,
and also keep it maintainable.
So I don't have a lot of--
I don't want the combinatorial explosion.
There's a little bit of options that it gives you.
So you can choose the license, for example.
And Cookie Cutter allows you to hide or show
parts of your file tree depending on what the user chose.
But basically it's not meant to be
all the different packaging tools,
all the different ways like TOX, NOX,
the different CIs, that there was a conscious decision
to basically say, okay, here's one way to do it,
and I can really curate it and make sure that it all works.
- Sure, keep it opinionated and straightforward
and whatnot, right?
>> I suppose if people really wanted to use talks instead of
Knox and they wanted to use typer instead of click,
they could fork the repo,
create their own template and roll with that.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. All right.
Well, very interesting.
One more quick audience question here from Michael says,
can Labeler as in GitHub Labeler export existing settings?
It'd be great to unify labels across repos.
Any idea?
- Right.
I think there is a separate tool to do that.
So I don't think that GitHub Labeler does it,
but I remember that that was actually
a community contribution,
and I remember that the contributor who added this feature
first went and exported the existing configuration
from whatever we had in the repository.
- Okay, yeah, cool.
Yeah, very nice.
All right, well, we are just a tiny bit out of time here.
So unfortunately, even though there's a bunch of other stuff
I wanted to cover, I don't think we're going to be able to
'cause we covered so many cool things.
You know, I did want to just give a quick shout out
to your music.
And in addition to being a lawyer and a software developer
and open source person,
you also do like compositional stuff, right?
So you've got on your website, you've got a whole section,
How many videos here, like 10 different music videos
that you've put together that are pretty neat.
You want to just give a quick shout out to that?
Yeah, so I spent, I think, 10 years working both
as a software engineer and a touring and recording musician.
Also as an arranger, so I arranged some string quartets.
And so I did arrangements for Naima Hosseini,
who's a German indie singer.
Definitely check her out.
Jackie, I've been on tour with her really
across all of Europe and wonderful reggae-inspired
singer.
And there are so many more.
Like, I'm grateful for all the musicians
I've been able to play with.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
I listen to a bunch of them.
My favorite is Immer Alles, Akustisch im Deutschen Theater.
That's the one with Naeemi Hussaini.
That was a really good one.
They're all good, but that one was really excellent.
And then Michael also thinks that we should have
a whole podcast about your compositional tools.
Quickly, do you use Python for any of this stuff
or is it kind of a separate world?
- Sadly, it's pretty much a separate world.
I've been using Ableton a lot
and didn't really get into automating all of this
- Not yet, not yet also.
- I think Lucas Blanger does this kind of stuff.
- Yeah, cool.
- It can be done.
- Yeah, people should check out Fox.
Are you familiar with Fox.
And that whole programming with composition,
sort of building up music with Python.
Have you seen this?
- I know.
- Oh my gosh.
Every time I search for it, Fox.
I think it's Fox.Python.
I think that's what it is.
If you check out the videos.
Yeah, there's some neat live coding music
with Fox.in Python.
Every time I just randomly pick one of these videos,
it's not really necessarily the best one.
But there's some really neat ones of adding instruments
in with Python.
It's cool.
People should check that out.
Yeah.
All right, well, we are out of time.
Claudio, really quickly, final two questions.
If you're going to write some Python code, what editor
are you using these days?
I use SpaceMX.
I've been using Emacs for a long time
and use it with VI bindings now.
I like it.
- Right on.
And almost has to ask you for a notable PyPI package
'cause we covered so many,
but maybe just like, you know,
what one stands out to you?
Like you want to just give a shout out to
either one we covered or a different one.
- I think I just name a TypeGuard
'cause it really deserves.
TypeGuard 3 is gonna come out hopefully soon
bringing new features.
So yeah.
- Cool.
- All right, well, final call to action,
people wanna get started with this hypermodern project
idea that you've created, what do they do?
- So just go to the cookie cutter hypermodern Python repo,
check out the contributor guide and the code of conduct
and we love contributors, so.
- I know.
How relevant is going back and reading the article?
Is it drifted too far or is it enough
to get like some of the zen?
Or if you've listened to this, are you kind of good to go?
- I think that the article series is still fun to read.
I think these days, what I would recommend
is that you don't just take the example code,
maybe just generate a default project from the cookie cutter
and then take a look at that as well,
because some things have changed in the two years,
but the article series kind of gives you the motivation
for everything, and it's probably also more fun
to read than the user guide for the project template, which
is also there and very detailed.
But yeah.
>>Victor: Yeah, fantastic.
All right, well, thank you so much for being on the show,
and congrats on the cool project.
>>Christian: Thank you very much.
>>Victor: You bet.
Bye.
>>Christian: Bye-bye.